# Playwright automation: lesson 02
## I/ Git
### 1. Undo actions
#### 1.1. Changing the commit message of the last commit
```
git commit --amend -m"message"
```
The git `commit --amend` command in Git is used to modify the most recent commit. This command replaces the last commit with a new one that incorporates any staged changes and/or a revised commit message.

*Note: `git commit --amend` also used to edit the last commit with adding more changes by steps: First, stage the forgotten changes using `git add`; then, running `git commit --amend` will combine these staged changes with the previous commit, effectively adding them to the last commit.*

#### 1.2. Unstage changes / remove changes from staging area
```
git restore --staged <file_path>
```
The command `git restore --staged <file_path>` is used to unstage changes in a specific file. This means that the modifications you added to the staging area for that file will be removed from the index, but the changes in your working directory will remain intact. The file will no longer be included in the next commit unless you stage it again.

*Note: You can also use wildcard patterns to unstage multiple files at once. For example:*
- *`git restore --staged *.js` to unstage all .js file*
- *`git restore --staged <folder_path>/*` to unstage all files under a specific folder
- *`git restore --staged .` to restore all files*

#### 1.3. Revert commit
```
git reset HEAD~<n>
```
This command `git reset HEAD~<n>` is used to move the HEAD pointer back a specific number of commits before the current HEAD, with <n> representing the number of commits to go back.

*Note: The changes from those <n> commits are preserved in the working directory but are unstaged. And the first commit is not allowed to be reset.*

### 2. Branching
- use `git pull origin main` to get the latest code/state of main branch from origin and update your local main branch.
- when we initialize a repository, a default branch is created. `git config --global init.defaultBranch main` to config the main branch as default branch when repo initialized
- `git branch` to view list all of the branches in your repository. Note: need at least 1 commit to have the branch displayed in the list.
- `git branch <branch_name>` to create a new branch called <branch_name> with code/files/commit history same as the current branch. This command does not check out the new branch.
- `git checkout <branch_name>` to switch from another branch to <branch_name>
- `git checkout -b <branch_name>` to create and switch to new branch called <branch_name>
- `git branch -d <branch_name> to delete a specific branch. We need to switch to another branch to delete the current branch.
- `git branch --help`displays the manual page for the git-branch command, providing comprehensive information on how to use it.

*Note: We should pull the latest code from the origin branch before we create new branch to limit the conflict.*

### 3. Ignore file
File `.gitignore` is an important config file in Git that specifies intentionally untracked files/folders to ignore by Git. 
Files that we normally ignore: file generated by MacOS/Window (.DS_Store, Thumb), dependencies folder (node_modules/, vendor/), build and artifacts files (dist/, build/, *.exe), user config files (IDE settings, environment variables), Log files and database local.

*Note: Files already tracked (has been committed) by Git are not affected.*

Syntax:
| Pattern | Explanation |
|---------|-------------|
| <file_name> | ignore a specific file |
| <folder_name>/ | ignore a specific folder (all files in that folder) |
| *.log | ignore all file having extension .log |
| **/*.txt | ignore all txt files in all sub folders |
| !<file_name> | exception: not ignore this file |
| /<file_name> | ignore file at the root folder
| lesson-02/**/*.txt | ignore all txt file in folder lesson-02 |

## II/ JavaScript Basic
### 1. Convention
- snake_case: 
- kebab-case: normally used to name file, folder name
- camelCase: normally used to variable, function
- PascalCase: normally used to name class
- UPPER_CASE
### 2. Console.log
- to pass string into console.log we can use `""`, `''` or backticks ` `` `
```
Example:
let name = "Nga";
let age = 16;
console.log('Toi ten la ` + name + ', nam nay ' + age); // convert all to string
console.log('Toi ten la ${name}, nam nay ${age}`) // convert all to string
console.log ('Toi ten la', name, "nam nay" , ${age}) //not convert data type.
```

### 3. Object
**What is Objects** 
Object is a fundamental data type used to store store data in the format of key: value, where the key is a unique identifier (property name) and the value is the data associated with that key. These key-value pairs are known as properties, where the key is a string (or Symbol) and the value can be any JavaScript data type, including other objects or functions.

**Declaration**
```
let user = {
name: "Alex",
age: 21,
email: "alex@gmail.com"
}

const product = {
    name: "Laptop",
    price: 200,
    isWindow: true,
    manufacturer: { //nested object
        name: "Acer",
        year: 2023,
    },
    buyer: user
    "Is For Sale": true,
}
```

**Accessing Object properties**
- Using dot notation
```
console.log(product.manufacturer.name);
```
```
product.manufacturer.year = 2024;
console.log(product.manufacturer.year);
```

- Square Bracket notation: This is useful when property names contain special characters or are dynamically determined.
```
console.log(product["manufacturer"]["name"]);
console.log(product["Is For Sale"]);
```
- We can declare new properties for the object by using dot or square bracket.
```
let bike = {
    make: 'Yamaha',
    model: 'YZF-R3'
    };
bike.color = “Blue”;
bike[“price new”] = 100;
console.log(bike);
//{make: 'Yamaha', model: 'YZF-R3', color: 'Blue', ‘price new’ : 100}
```
- Use delete function to delete properties of object
```
let bike = {
    make: 'Yamaha',
    model: 'YZF-R3'
    };
delet bike.model;
console.log(bike);
// {make: 'Yamaha'} 
```

### 4. Array
**What is Array** 
    Array is an object type used to store an ordered collection of values. These values, known as elements, are accessed by a numeric index, starting from 0.

**Declaration**
```
let arrName = ["Hoa", "Tram", "Huong", "Tuan Anh"];
const emptyArray = [];
const emptyArray = new Array(5); //Creates an array with length 5, containing empty slots
```

**Accessing and Modifying Elements:**
- Elements are accessed and modified using bracket notation with their index
- The length property indicates the number of elements in an array.
```
const fruits = ["Apple", "Orange", "Plum"];
for (let i = 0; i < fruits.length; i++) {
    console.log(fruits[i])
};
```
**Common Array Methods:**
- push(): Adds one or more elements to the end of an array
```
const fruits = ["Apple", "Orange", "Plum"];
fruits.push("Grape", "Banana");
```

### 5. Function
Functions are reusable block of code designed to perform a particular task. Functions execute when they are called or invoked.

```
function printClassList(className) {
    console.log('Class ${className}');
}
const list = ["K18", "K19", "K20", "K21"]
for (let i = 0; i < list.length; i++) {
    printClassList(list[i]);
};